{docbook}
<abstract>
 <para>This chapter introduces you to a list of portlets included in Content, and their details (packaging, portlet class name, available preferences and sample configurations:</para>
  <itemizedlist>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.ContentDetail">Content Detail</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>Allow viewing details of a specific content.
	  </para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.ContentList">Content List</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>Show a list of content which already exist in the system.</para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.Search">Search</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>Allow doing a search with any string.
	  </para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.Explorer">Sites Explorer</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>Manage all documents in different drives. With this portlet, you can do many different actions depending on their roles, such as adding/deleting a category and a document, showing/hiding a node, managing publication, and more. </para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.Administration">Administration</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>
	  Manage the main Content functions, including categories and tags, content presentation, types of content and advanced configuration.
	  </para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.FastContentCreator">Fast Content Creator</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>
	  Consist of two modes: <emphasis role="bold">Standard Content Creator</emphasis> and <emphasis role="bold">Basic Content Creator</emphasis>. This portlet allows users to quickly
	  create contents without accessing the Sites Explorer portlet.
	  </para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.Authoring">Authoring</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>Allow users to manage contents in draft and ones which need to be approved or published.
	  </para>
    </listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para> 
		<emphasis role="bold"><link linkend="CONTref.Portlets.SEO">SEO portlet</link></emphasis>
	  </para>
	  <para>
	  Allow users to manage SEO data of web content and web pages, so they can maximize their website position on search engines.
	  </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
 <para>These portlet applications are packaged as Web application archives (WARs).</para>
 <para>Also, you can specify the package of each portlet and its available preferences that allow you to extend the configuration choices for standard preferences defined in <emphasis>portlet.xml</emphasis>.</para>
</abstract>
{docbook}






