h1. Translation for Taxonomy



h1. Displaying taxonomy tree's name

With each taxonomy tree, the name of a node is found in portal/WEB-INF/classes/locale/ecm/cms/taxonomy/...xml file. Key of the name of the node is:
{code}
eXoTaxonomies.$\{path to node}.label = $\{localized name}
{code}

In which:

* Path to node: starts from taxonomy tree
* Path to node: replaced all "/" with "."

Example: in System taxonomy tree, we have:
* System -->eXoTaxonomies.System.label = System name
* System/cms --> eXoTaxonomies.System.cms.label = cms name

Note:
* If the key is not defined in .xml file, the displaying name is the name of  the taxonomy.

* To add category: System/cms/sports
** In xml, we define key/values following:
- eXoTaxonomies.System.label = System
- eXoTaxonomies.System.cms.label = Cms
- eXoTaxonomies.System.cms.sports.label = Sports <br>
** Find system name: System
** Find cms name: Cms
** Find the name of sports: Sports
--> the result is System/Cms/Sports


h1. Localize file
To get localize, we define all key in
portal/WEB-INF/classes/locale/ecm/cms/taxonomy/taxonomies_en.xml

Examples:
{code}
 <eXoTaxonomies>
    <System>
      <label>System</label>
      <cms>
      		<label>Cms</label>
			<sports>
				<label>Sports</label>
				<football>
					<label>Football</label>
					<champions-league>
						<label>Champion League</label>
					</champions-league>
				</football>	
			</sports>	
	</cms>
    </System>
 </eXoTaxonomies>
{code}



h1. Add category for document
Previous, we could add a category for a document by typing. Now, we must choose a category thanks to UIOneTaxonomySelector component. We also can not edit the category text box. The value in the text box is not a path to taxonomy, it's a value respectively getting from localize file basing on the path.



