h1. Portlet Applications {anchor:id=CONTref.Applications}
{include:document="pages/preface/application.wiki" /}
h2. Content Detail {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.ContentDetail}
  {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_contentdetail.wiki" /}
h2. Content List {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.ContentList}
  {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_contentlist.wiki" /}
h2. Search {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.Search}
  {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_search.wiki" /}
h2. Sites Explorer {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.Explorer}
  {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_explorer.wiki" /}
h2. Administration {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.Administration}
  {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_administration.wiki" /}
h2. Fast Content Creator {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.FastContentCreator}
  {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_fastcontentcreator.wiki" /}
h2. Authoring {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.Authoring}
{include:document="pages/preface/portlet_authoring.wiki" /}
h2. SEO portlet  {anchor:id=CONTref.Portlets.SEO}
 {include:document="pages/preface/portlet_seo.wiki" /}

h1. CMIS {anchor:id=CONTref.CMIS}
{include:document="xCMIS/CMIS_Introduction.wiki" /}
h2. Overview {anchor:id=Dev_CMIS.Overview}
{include:document="xCMIS/Overview.wiki" /}
h2. CMIS specification {anchor:id=Dev_CMIS.Specification}
{include:document="xCMIS/CMISspecification.wiki" /}
h2. xCMIS project {anchor:id=Dev_CMIS.xCMIS_project}
{include:document="xCMIS/xCMISproject.wiki" /}
h2. CMIS features {anchor:id=Dev_CMIS.features}
{include:document="xCMIS/WCMfeatures_Introduction.wiki" /}
{include:document="xCMIS/WCMfeatures.wiki" /}
{include:document="xCMIS/CMISfeatures.wiki" /}
h2. Service JARs {anchor:id=Adm_CMIS.ServiceJARs}
{include:document="xCMIS/xCMISfiles.wiki" /}
 
h1. Configuration   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration}
{include:document="pages/configuration/configuration.wiki"/}
h2. Components   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/components.wiki"/}
h3. ActionServiceContainer   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.ActionServiceContainerRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_ActionServiceContainer.wiki"/}
h3. ApplicationTemplateManagerService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.ApplicationTemplateManagerServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_ApplicationTemplateManagerService.wiki"/}
h3. FragmentCacheService  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.FragmentCacheServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_FragmentCacheService.wiki"/}
h3. JodConverterService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.JodConverterServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_JodConverterServices.wiki"/}
h3. LiveLinkManagerService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.LiveLinkManagerServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_LiveLinkManagerService.wiki"/}
h3. LockService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.LockServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_LockService.wiki"/}
h3. SiteSearchService  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.SiteSearchServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_SiteSearchService.wiki"/}
h3. SEOService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.SEOServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_SEOService.wiki"/}
h3. QueryService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.QueryServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_QueryService.wiki"/}
h3. TaxonomyService     {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.TaxonomyServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_TaxonomyService.wiki"/}
h3. ThumbnailService    {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.ThumbnailServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_ThumbnailService.wiki"/}
h3. TimelineService    {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.TimelineServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_TimelineService.wiki"/}
h3. WatchDocumentService   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.WatchDocumentServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_WatchDocumentService.wiki"/}
h3. WCMService    {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Components.WCMServiceRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/components/config_WCMService.wiki"/}

h2. External Component Plugins   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin.wiki"}
h3. AuthoringPublicationPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.AuthoringPublicationPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_AuthoringPublicationPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ContentTypeFilterPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ContentTypeFilterPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ContentTypeFilterPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ContextPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ContextPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ContextPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ExcludeIncludeDataTypePlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ExcludeMimeTypesRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ExcludeIncludeDataTypePlugin.wiki"}
h3. FriendlyPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.FriendlyPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_FriendlyPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ImageThumbnailPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ImageThumnailPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ImageThumnailPlugin.wiki"}
h3. IgnorePortalPlugin {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.IgnorePortalPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_IgnorePortalPlugin.wiki"}
h3. InitialWebcontentPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.InitialWebcontentPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_InitialWebcontentPlugin.wiki"}
h3. LinkDeploymentPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.LinkDeploymentPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_LinkDeploymentPlugin.wiki"}
h3. LockGroupsOrUsersPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.LockGroupsOrUsersPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_LockGroupsOrUsersPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ManageDrivePlugin{anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ManageDrivePluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ManageDrivePlugin.wiki"}
h3. ManageViewPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ManageViewPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ManageViewPlugin.wiki"}
h3. PDFThumbnailPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.PDFThumnailPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_PDFThumnailPlugin.wiki"}
h3. PorletTemplatePlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.PortetTemplatePluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_PorletTemplatePlugin.wiki"}
h3. QueryPlugin    {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.QueryPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_QueryPlugin.wiki"}
h3. RemoveTaxonomyPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.RemoveTaxonomyPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_RemoveTaxonomyPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ScriptActionPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ScriptActionPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ScriptActionPlugin.wiki"}
h3. ScriptPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.ScriptPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_ScriptPlugin.wiki"}
h3. StageAndVersionPublicationPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.StageAndVersionPublicationPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_StageAndVersionPublicationPlugin.wiki"}
h3. StatesLifecyclePlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.StatesLifecyclePluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_StatesLifecyclePlugin.wiki"}
h3. TagPermissionPlugin  {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.TagPermissionPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_TagPermissionPlugin.wiki"/}
h3. TagStylePlugin    {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.TagStylePluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_TagStylePlugin.wiki"/}
h3. TaxonomyPlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.TaxonomyPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_TaxonomyPlugin.wiki"/}
h3. TemplatePlugin   {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.TemplatePluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_TemplatePlugin.wiki" /}
h3. XMLdeploymentPlugin{anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.XMLdeploymentPluginRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_XMLdeploymentPlugin.wiki" /}
h3. BaseActionPlugin/CreatePortalPlugin/PublicationPlugin/RemovePortalPlugin {anchor:id=CONTref.Configuration.Plugins.BaseAction_CreatePortal_Publication_RemovePortalRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/configuration/plugins/plugin_BaseAction_CreatePortal_Publication_RemovePortal.wiki"}
h2. CMIS configuration {anchor:id=CONTref.CMIS.Configuration}
{include:document="xCMIS/Configure.wiki" /}
{include:document="xCMIS/Authentication.wiki" /}
{include:document="xCMIS/Index.wiki" /}

h1. Developer references {anchor:id=CONTref.DeveloperReferences}
{include:document="pages/developer-ref.wiki" /}
h2. WCM Templates {anchor:id=CONTref.InsideWCMTemplates}
{include:document="pages/InsideWCMTemplates.wiki" /}
h3. Content types {anchor:id=CONTref.CONTref.InsideWCMTemplates.ContentTypesRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/templates/content.wiki" /}
h4. Dialog {anchor:id=CONTref.InsideWCMTemplates.ContentTypes.Dialog}
  {include:document="pages/templates/dialog.wiki" /}
h4. View {anchor:id=CONTref.InsideWCMTemplates.ContentTypes.View}
  {include:document="pages/templates/view.wiki" /}
h3. List of Contents {anchor:id=CONTref.InsideWCMTemplates.ListOfContentsRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/templates/folder.wiki" /}
  {include:document="pages/templates/category.wiki" /}

h2. WCM Explorer {anchor:id=CONTref.InsideWCMExplorer}
  {include:document="pages/explorer/css.wiki" /}
  {include:document="pages/explorer/ckeditor.wiki" /}

h2. Extensions {anchor:id=CONTref.Extensions}
 {include:document="pages/extensions/Extensions.wiki" /}
h3. REST Services {anchor:id=CONTref.Extensions.RESTServicesRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/extensions/rest.wiki" /}
h3. UI Extensions {anchor:id=CONTref.Extensions.UIExtensionsRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/extensions/ui.wiki" /}
h3. Authoring Extension {anchor:id=CONTref.Extensions.AuthoringExtensionRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/extensions/authoring.wiki" /}
h3. Auxiliary attributes for documents  {anchor:id=CONTref.Extensions.AuxiliaryAttributesRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="pages/extensions/auxiliary_attributes.wiki" /}

h2. CMIS Usage code examples {anchor:id=Dev_CMIS.Usage_code_examples}
{include:document="xCMIS/CodeExamples.wiki" /}    
h2. Public REST APIs {anchor:id=CONTref.Devref.PublicRestAPIs}
{include:document="pages/Rest-api.wiki" /}
h2. Public Java APIs {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices}
{include:document="pages/services/PublicJavaAPIs.wiki" /}
h3. TaxonomyService {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.TaxonomyServiceRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/taxonomy.wiki" /}
h3. LinkManager {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.LinkManagerRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/link.wiki" /}
h3. PublicationManager {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.PublicationManagerRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/publication.wiki" /}
h3. WCMComposer {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.WCMComposerRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/composer.wiki" /}
h3. NewFolksonomy {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.NewFolksonomyRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/newFolksonomy.wiki" /}
h3. ApplicationTemplateManager {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.ApplicationTemplateManagerRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/applicationTemplateManager.wiki" /}
h3. NodeFinder {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.NodeFinderRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/nodeFinder.wiki" /}
h3. JodConverter {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.JodConverterRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/jodConverter.wiki" /}
h3. TimelineService {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.TimelineServiceRoleNotInToc}
   {include:document="pages/services/TimelineService.wiki" /}
h3. SiteSearchService {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.SiteSearchServiceRoleNotInToc}
  {include:document="pages/services/SiteSearchService.wiki" /}
h3. SEOService  {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.SEOServiceRoleNotInToc}
 {include:document="pages/services/SEO.wiki" /}
h3. ManageViewService  {anchor:id=CONTref.JavaServices.ManageViewServiceRoleNotInToc}
 {include:document="pages/services/manageView.wiki" /}
h2. Miscellaneous and Tips {anchor:id=Adm_CMIS.Miscellaneous_tips}
{include:document="xCMIS/Links.wiki" /}