h1. CMIS Configuration {anchor:id=Adm_CMIS.Configuration.CMIS_configuration}

To expose WCM drives to the CMIS repositories, you must make a special extension of _CmisRegistry_.

To make a typical component _org.exoplatform.ecms.xcmis.sp.jcr.exo.DriveCmisRegistry_, do as follows:

{code:xml}
<component>
   <type>org.exoplatform.ecms.xcmis.sp.jcr.exo.DriveCmisRegistry</type>
   <init-params>
      <!-- Disabled by default. Uncomment if you need query support in CMIS. -->
         <!-- value-param>
            <name>indexDir</name>
            <value>${gatein.jcr.index.data.dir}/cmis-index${container.name.suffix}</value>
         </value-param-->
      <value-param>
         <name>exo.cmis.renditions.persistent</name>
         <value>true</value>
      </value-param>
      <values-param>
         <name>renditionProviders</name>
         <description>Redition providers classes.</description>
         <!-- <value>org.xcmis.renditions.impl.PDFDocumentRenditionProvider</value> -->
         <value>org.xcmis.renditions.impl.ImageRenditionProvider</value>
      </values-param>
   </init-params>
</component>
{code}

Where configuration parameters include:
* indexDir - directory where the lucene index will be placed. It is disabled by default.
* exo.cmis.renditions.persistent - Indicates if a rendition of the document (thumbnails) should be persisted in the JCR. The allowed value are _true_ or _false_.
* renditionProviders - set of FQN of classes which can be used as Rendition Providers. Classes which implement the org.xcmis.spi.RenditionProvider interface are used to preview the CMIS objects (thumbnails).

{info}
  In most cases, it is not required to change anything in the xCIMIS configuration.
  In case of any change of the indexer storage location, do not comment the indexDir value parameter and point it to the actual location.
{info}

h1. Required nodetypes and namespaces in JCR {anchor:id=Adm_CMIS.Configuration.Required_nodetypes_namespaces_in_JCR}

The following configuration is mandatory for JCR to work correctly:
{code:xml}
<external-component-plugins>
   <target-component>org.exoplatform.services.jcr.RepositoryService</target-component>
   <component-plugin>
      <name>add.namespaces</name>
      <set-method>addPlugin</set-method>
      <type>org.exoplatform.services.jcr.impl.AddNamespacesPlugin</type>
      <init-params>
         <properties-param>
            <name>namespaces</name>
            <property name="cmis" value="http://www.exoplatform.com/jcr/cmis/1.0" />
            <property name="xcmis" value="http://www.exoplatform.com/jcr/xcmis/1.0" />
         </properties-param>
      </init-params>
   </component-plugin>
   <component-plugin>
      <name>add.nodeType</name>
      <set-method>addPlugin</set-method>
      <type>org.exoplatform.services.jcr.impl.AddNodeTypePlugin</type>
      <init-params>
        <values-param>
            <name>autoCreatedInNewRepository</name>
            <description>Node types configuration file</description>
            <value>jar:/conf/cmis-nodetypes-config.xml</value>
         </values-param>
      </init-params>
   </component-plugin>
</external-component-plugins>
{code}

