Introduction in eXo CMIS, principles of its work and configuration.

h1. CMIS specification

{info}
Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) Version 1.0
OASIS Standard 
1 May 2010

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_Management_Interoperability_Services]
{info}

The Content Management Interoperability Services (CMIS) standard defines a domain model and Web Services and Restful AtomPub bindings that can be used by applications to work with one or more Content Management repositories/systems.
The CMIS interface is designed to be layered on top of existing Content Management systems and their existing programmatic interfaces. 
It is not intended to prescribe how specific features should be implemented within those CM systems, not to exhaustively expose all of the CM system.s capabilities through the CMIS interfaces. 
Rather, it is intended to define a generic/universal set of capabilities provided by a CM system and a set of services for working with those capabilities.

CMIS specification provides a Web services interface that:
* Is designed to work over existing repositories enabling customers to build and leverage applications against multiple repositories
* Decouples Web services and content from the content management repository, enabling customers to manage content independently
* Provides common Web services and Web 2.0 interfaces to dramatically simplify application development
* Is development platform and language agnostic
* Supports composite application development and mash-up by the business or IT analyst


h1. xCMIS project

The xCMIS project [http://xcmis.org/], initially contributed to the Open Source community by [http://www.exoplatform.com|eXo Platform],is an implementation of the full stack of Java-based CMIS services. 
xCMIS also include the client side frameworks for integrating content from different enterprise repositories according to the [http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cmis|CMIS standard]. 

The project is distributed under the LGPL license. 
You can download sources on [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/source/checkout|Google code],
or visit [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/w/list|Community Wiki] for more information. 

h1. eXo CMIS 

eXo CMIS it is the eXo Platform service exposing eXo Content via CMIS.
eXo CMIS offers the way of access the eXo ECMS content from CMIS 1.0 compatible Web client using REST Atom protocol.

{note}
WS-SOAP/WSDL binding is supported as well but it is not delivered in standard eXo Platform 3.0 bundle.
{note}

eXo CMIS is build on top of xCMIS embedded in Platform to expose WCM drives as CMIS repositories.
CMIS features are implemented as a set of components deployed on eXo Container using XML files to describe the configuration of the service.


