
h1. WCM FAQ  

h2. User FAQ
h3. Is it possible to enable actions in 'Managed Sites' drive as we can do in a private drive?
Yes, of course you can. Please do follow these steps:
- Go to Sites Administration page, use the menu or this link http://localhost:8080/portal/private/acme/wcm/wcmAdmin
- Open Content Presentation -> Manage Drives
- Click on the edit icon of the drive you want to Manage Actions (Managed Sites in this case)
- Jump to the _Apply View_ tab, check in _Admin_ view
- Save
- Now go back to site explorer page. Go up if you are in a different drive (Green up arrow icon in the up-right corner).
- Go to Managed Sites drive and you will see the action, you can also switch to other views by choose them in the upper-left corner.

h3. How to create an RSS Feeds in WCM 1.2?
If you have a freshly installed WCM, open http://localhost:8080/portal/private/acme/news
Make sure that you created some documents in Acme driver (using the site explorer).
It's an option on Parameterized Content List Viewer, and it's linked to the categories.

h3. Where can I configure: "Vote for document" and "Comment this document" in WCM 1.2?
The Vote and Comment feature will be enabled in WCM 1.3


h2. Technical FAQ
h3. I get a strange error right at start-up.
You have to use Java 5. The use of Java 6 is not yet possible.

h3. How do I configure the users who have access the Site Editor and Site Manager menus? 
In "exo-working\exo-tomcat\webapps\portal\WEB-INF\conf\wcm\system-configuration.xml", you find the *portal.creation.roles* entry for the two menus "Sites Editor" and "Sites Administration" access permissions.

h3. How do I configure the users who have access to the Mode Switch (Live Mode / Edit Mode)?
The access is given to a group. The default group is *\*:/platform/web-contributors*.

There are two different configuration files, that _both_ give permission to access the button. The first configuration file only give access for a single site, the second for all sites.
    * Single site depending on the location of the file: "exo-tomcat/webapps/portal/WEB-INF/conf/portal/portal/\{portalname}/portal.xml" in "<edit-permission>*:/platform/web-contributors</edit-permission>" element. Only give access to the Mode Switch Button on the portal called \{portalname}.
    * All sites: "exo-working/exo-tomcat/webapps/portal/WEB-INF/conf/wcm/system-configuration.xml", in *access.control.workspace.roles* parameter. Members of this groups have access on all sites.

h3. Can I create a custom node type in a jar file ?
Yes, certainly you can.
If you have read [Kernel:Service Configuration for Beginners] and [Kernel:Service Configuration in Detail#Import] you should know how to do it. In your jar file:
- Create a file /conf/portal/configuration.xml (all paths relative to your jar file root).
- Create other files necessary for a node type creation (below the /conf folder)
- You reference all files using the "jar:" namespace designator. Example: "jar:/conf/definitions/nodetype-mytype.xml" 
(TODO: Article about Node types definition in DMS)


h3. How can I create a site that is read-only?
# The site can only be changed by the user who has the permissions to do so. Anonymous users have in general no permission and cannot change anything (any content or navigation) on your site. You may also create users without any permissions to change the site, which is very often the case in production environments.

# If the question refers to "does not write anything to the JCR", we have to say that is impossible. Everything is saved in the repository (users, preferences, navigation, content). If you have a site which only shows content it's probable there isn't written much to the repository. But it's probable that the future statistics feature of WCM writes in the JCR. Furthermore you might have portlets that write in the JCR, for example if the portlet use forms and stores the content in an JCR node.


h3. How to avoid the minimum width of 300px of a portlet?
The HTML generated by this portlet is the following:
{code:xml}
<div class="UISingleContentViewerPortlet" style="min-width: 300px;" id="UISingleContentViewerPortlet">
{code}
You see it's hard-coded in the html but you can use the key word _important_. Add the following line in your css file: 
_div.UISingleContentViewerPortlet { min-width: 0px !important; }_


h3. How can I make the publication workflow user dependent?
Since WCM 1.2 you can define user-dependent publication workflows. Normally you see a _Stage and Version publication_ lifecycle but this can be changed
We will provide a management tools to manage publication workflows, and you can use it to control your publication lifecycles. But it isn't yet available in WCM1.2.

h3. Where is all the default content of the WCM main page stored?
We use Single Content Viewer portlets to present these contents. You can see the contents of this portlets using the Site Explorer, Driver Managed Sites. For example in order to see the content of the logo open _classic/web contents/site artifacts/Logo_ (in WCM1.2). 








