xCMIS includes the client side frameworks for integrating content from different enterprise repositories, according to [http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cmis|CMIS standard]. 

The project is to make joining Enterprise Content repositories simpler by offering CMIS ablity and exposing them to language-independent CMIS clients via the most convenient protocol.

xCMIS project:
* Is embedded, packaged as the J2EE Web archive (WAR) and prepared "download and go" Tomcat bundle.
* Has a live demo with the full-featured CMIS Expert client, which is accessible on the xcmis.org site and with prepared "download and go" Tomcat bundle (the client is accessible as the remote gadget).
* Is embedded in Platform to create the special xCMIS jcr repository and access it with any CMIS client.
* Tested with third-party CMIS clients, such as IBM CMIS Firefox Connector and CMIS Spaces Flex+AIR client. Either local repository (as described here) or [http://xcmis.org/xcmis1/rest/cmisatom] can be used as a CMIS repository's endpoint URL for these or other types of clients.

Benefits of xCMIS
* xCMIS is an open source, server side Java CMIS implementation, enabling to expose content in the existing content repositories according to the protocols defined in the CMIS specification.
* xCMIS will give developers a way to make their content repositories "pluggable" on the server side based on the internal Storage Provider Interface and additional protocol on-demand bindings.
* xCMIS will provide (several) CMIS client frameworks for repository-application and repository-repository interactions. The programming language and supported protocol can be selected by users. For example, the reasonable choice for using web applications, gadgets, and/or mashups is JavaScript or GWT over REST AtomPub, while for inter-repository exchange, it may be Java over Web Services, i.e. WSDL/SOAP.)
* Both the server and client sides of xCMIS are easily integrated in the eXo Platform 3.0 infrastructure. In particular, xCMIS exposes the eXo JCR content repository and provides a framework for building web applications and gadgets for the GateIn portal.

The xCMIS project is distributed under the LGPL license. You can download sources on [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/source/checkout|Google code],
or visit [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/w/list|Community Wiki] for more information. 

