h1. Workflow Manual


This module is part of [ECM|ECM:WebHome]. ECM depends on [eXo Portal|Portal:WebHome], therefore you should also study the [Portal:Portal Manual].


Other articles:
[Benefits]


h1. Terms

* [Workflow:Workflow Model]
* [Workflow:Workflow Engine]



h1. User Manual

* [Workflow:Workflow Tutorial]
* [Task Management]
* [Holiday Process]
* [Pay Raise Process]
* [Upload a Process]
* [View Process Details]

* [Workflow RTL Support]

* [Content Validation]

h1. Administration

Please refer to the [Portal:Portal Manual#Administration].

h1. Installation

* [Main:Tutorial Step One]
* [Workflow:Workflow Installation]
* [Workflow:Workflow Maven Packaging]


h1. Configuration
* [Workflow Publication Plugin]
* [Process Definition (XPDL)]
* [Bonita Forms Definition]
* [Bonita Resource bundle]
* [Business Process in the JCR]


h1. Integration
* [Bonita Overview]
* [JBPM Configuration]



h1. Release Notes and Dependencies

h1. Migration

No migration yet.

h1. Technical Foundations

* [Main:Overall Architecture]
* [Portal|ECM:]
* [Portal|Portal:]
* [Portlet Container| PC:]
* [Java Content Repository| JCR:]
* [Web Services| WS:]
* [eXo Core| Core:]
* [eXo Kernel| Kernel:]



h1. Development

* [Developers' zone| Main:Developers]
* [eXo JavaDocs| http//docs:exoplatform.org]
* [Products+Tech+Overview:Components Registry#ECM]



h1. Support

- [Forums|http//www.exoplatform.com/portal/public/en/forum?portal:componentId=forum&portal.type=action&portal.isSecure=false&uicomponent=UIBreadcumbs&op=ChangePath&objectId=forumCategory88a712bac0a80201004998ce39c9e43f%2Fforum88a88ec4c0a802010066175a51001e4b]
- [FAQ|http://faq.exoplatform.com]
- [JIRA|http://jira.exoplatform.org/browse/Workflow ]

eXo Platform SAS also provides [professional support|http://www.exoplatform.com/portal/public/en/services/support] for eXo Workflow.
