xCMIS project [http://xcmis.org/], initially contributed to the Open Source community by [http://www.exoplatform.com|eXo Platform],is an implementation of the full stack of Java-based CMIS services. 
xCMIS also include the client side frameworks for integrating content from different enterprise repositories according to the [http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cmis|CMIS standard]. 

The idea of the project is to make as simple as possible joining Enterprise Content repositories making all of them CMIS-able and expose them to language-independent CMIS clients using the most convenient protocol.

xCMIS project:
* Can be embeded, packaged as J2EE Web archive (WAR) as well as prepared "download and go" Tomcat bundle
* Has a live demo with full-featured CMIS Expert client, which is accessible on the xcmis.org site as well as with prepared "download and go" Tomcat bundle (the client is accessible as remote gadget)
* Embeded in Platform to create special xCMIS jcr repository and access it with any CMIS client.
* Tested with third-party CMIS clients such as: IBM CMIS Firefox Connector and CMIS Spaces Flex+AIR client. Either local repository (as described here) or [http://xcmis.org/xcmis1/rest/cmisatom] can be used as a CMIS repository's endpoint URL for these or other types of clients.

What is the xCMIS project, and what does it do?
* xCMIS is an open source, server side Java CMIS implementation that is able to expose the content in existing content repositories according to the protocols defined in the CMIS spec
* xCMIS will give developers a way to make their content repositories "pluggable" on the server side - thanks to an internal Storage Provider Interface and additional protocol on-demand bindings
* xCMIS will provide (several) CMIS client frameworks for repository-application and repository-repository interactions. The programming language and supported protocol can be selected by the user.  (For example, the reasonable choice for use with web applications, gadgets, and/or mashups is JavaScript or GWT over REST AtomPub, while for inter-repository exchange it may be Java over Web Services, i.e. WSDL/SOAP.)
* Both the server and client sides of xCMIS are easily integrated in the eXo Platform 3.0 infrastructure. In particular, xCMIS exposes the eXo JCR content repository and provides a framework for building web applications and gadgets for the GateIn portal

xCMIS project is distributed under the LGPL license. You can download sources on [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/source/checkout|Google code],
or visit [http://code.google.com/p/xcmis/w/list|Community Wiki] for more information. 

